A SOUTH African fashion entrepreneur, now based in London, scored a goal for charity when is asked  A-list football stars from around the world to auction their used kit and clothing to raise funds for a good cause. Anoesjcka Gianotti, 38, founder of a new auction website Footballers4Change, is in a relationship with retired Chelsea FC and Tottenham FC goalkeeper Carlo Cudicini. She said the idea started when she found herself regularly taking bags of Cudicini’s kit to their local charity shop. “Footballers4Change is a great tool for the players to raise funds and awareness for a cause they care for, whilst championing sustainability and connecting with their fans. “I asked a few players and their partners what they do with their pre-loved items and if they were willing to support the project,” she said. After being put on hold due to Covid-19, the organisation will have an auction on Tuesday and another on December 4. “We planned to launch the project in April, but had to postpone it due to the uncertainty of Covid-19. “We had to make sure the virus couldn’t be transmitted through parcel handling,” said Gianotti. The organisation's prime goal is to raise funds for charities who suffer with the lack of donations. International names such as Chelsea striker Olivier Giroud and Real Midrid’s winger Eden Hazard, to name a few have joined the movement.  “I’m very proud of Chelsea goalkeeper Willy Caballero and his wife Lucia Araya’s choice of the Namibia Project, which addresses the devastating effects of the lives of children throughout Namibia. “I loved that I could make a difference in their mission so close to home,” she added. The website can be seen to have international designer items from Gucci, Dolce & Gabbana and Yves Saint Laurent to name but a few and also affordable items such as ADIDAS, Nike and Zara. Footballer Mateo Kovacic from Chelsea FC and his wife Izabel are proud to support Silab, a Croatian charity that provides rehabilitation programmes for children with Down syndrome and  autism. When Kovacic scored his first Chelsea goal, his silly ´hand to the nose’ celebration was a mystery. “It’s actually for my nieces. “One of which has Down syndrome, and they do that hand gesture with me. “I love her a lot and the celebration was for them,” said Kovacic. To join the auction visit the website on: 