Cape Town - A spotlight has been shone on the financial dealings of social rental housing company Communicare by a group of its tenants. At the heart of the dispute is the allegation that the company has privatised apartments that have historically been used for social housing. According to the last financial statements released by Communicare in its 2018 annual report, it made R28.65 million in net profit after tax that financial year. The Social Housing Street Assembly, composed of Communicare tenants, have claimed that the not-for-profit company (NPC) has, since 2018, made changes to the structure of its business to increase profits at the expense of the tenants who rely on subsidised units. Communicare has established Goodfind Properties Pty (Ltd) to increase it’s rental footprint to higher-income earners and to break away from the subsidised rentals it offers to pensioners, social grant beneficiaries and low-income earners. In 2018 in its annual report, Communicare described its intentions to register this new company and has since done so; but tenants claim their rent increased substantially when Goodfind Properties took over the management of apartments. In a statement dated May 17, 2018, Communicare announced that Goodfind Properties will “be investing in and upgrading our property portfolio starting with construction of 138 new units in Musgrave Villas in Diep River, followed by upgrading existing properties in Rondebosch, Wynberg, Brooklyn and Ruyterwacht”. Activist and tenant Colin Arendse said Communicare inherited properties in the 1990s which, then, had been earmarked for social housing. This included taking over the management of the Citizen’s Housing League apartments which had been set aside for white tenants. “We believe some properties were donated to the Citizen’s Housing League and that the NPO was there to serve those less fortunate in the white community ... We are asking what is going on? Where is the social housing that people are talking about? Why are they now making a profit?” Communicare has not published its annual reports and financial statements for 2019 or 2020. These would give an indication to the profits made by Goodfind Properties since its registration. A Communicare spokesperson said: “Due to the departure of our stakeholder manager during the Covid lockdown, our annual report production has been delayed and will be presented alongside our 2020 report ... early next year (mid-January).” Chief executive Anthea Houston said Goodfind Properties has 17 properties with just over 1 100 apartments/houses. Houston said tenants were informed of the changes and the establishment of Goodfind Properties. “We held ‘town hall’ meetings to provide more details, including why we were making a change, that the property would be transferred, that their lease remained valid, that we wanted tenants to consider signing fixed-term leases to comply with the CPA, the availability of our Special Review Committee to review any individual tenant’s personal means. We contacted each tenant individually via telephone and door-to-door visits to discuss any concerns or questions.” The Department of Human Settlements acknowledged receipt of the Communicare tenants’ memorandum, this week, about management of social housing units and transfer of properties to a company meant to turn a profit. Spokesperson Yonela Diko stopped short of saying the Communicare Group is under investigation and would not confirm it had been in contact with its management or board. Weekend Argus