Leisure Cape Town - FOR many, 2020 is a year to forget but for Riebeek Valley it is the start of bigger things. The Riebeek Valley Wine and Olive trails were launched at the Lookout Point on the Kloovenburg Wine and Olive Estate on Thursday. A creation of  Pieter du Toit and Yvette Puchert, co-owners of the Riebeek Valley Wine and Olive trails, the lifestyle trails are available from one to three days with accommodation included. The valley, which is made up of Riebeek Kasteel and Riebeek West, is known for its superb olive and grape produce. Pieter, who is the father of Springbok player Pieter-Steph, said: “Our walks highlight everything that is beautiful in our valley: our fauna, our flora, our amazing views and our award-winning products. It is truly an amazing all-round way to experience our valley. The people and our landscape and it is just one hour away from the major cities surrounding us. You cannot beat the experience, history and hospitality in our small town. Riebeek Valley also has some of the best wines to offer.” Like many tourist attractions, Riebeek Valley was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, with events such as Riebeek Valley Olive Festival and Solo Studios, a bespoke art event being cancelled earlier this year. “It was a tough time for us on the farm and it also had a tremendous effect on our bottom line. Due to the financial constraints we could only employ a third of our employees. It was therefore imperative that new and innovative tourism experiences be created to ensure a steady influx of visitors to the valley to sustain its people and its businesses. We had to improve and rethink our strategy. People must be able to experience nature and outdoor living instead of visiting malls,” Du Toit added. Puchert said: “Post-Covid-19, people need to get out of the city and do something active and in the outdoors. The Riebeek Valley is well known for its wine and olives. The trails capture the magic of the Riebeek Valley, its products, and its people.” Riebeek Valley tourism committee member Sean Cleary-le Grange said the Covid-19 pandemic had a major impact on the retail and hospitality sector. “A number of businesses closed their doors permanently as a result of the prolonged lockdown. Post-lockdown, tourism in Riebeek Valley has benefited from South African residents wanting to travel and explore smaller towns that are within a short driving radius. We are finding that the weekends are now some of the busiest we have had in five months with day-visitors and those wanting a weekend mini-holiday for two-three days,” he said. Avid hiker Peter Deering said he loves walking. “As a 73-year-old, I’m clearly not as strong or quick as I used to be, but getting out on the mountain is as good as it gets in the sense that mind, body and spirit are stimulated and exercised. Mind you, the beer at the end doesn’t do any harm either. “The Swartland, and particularly Kasteelberg offers a range of walks from a meander through the vineyards to a fairly strenuous three- to four-hour hike up to the top on the mountain and back down again. The views are spectacular in that on one side you can see Table Mountain and the other Groot Winterhoek with the Voëlvlei Dam below,” he said. For more information or to book a trail, call Puchert on 083 441 2083 or email: rvwineandolivetrails@gmail.com Weekend Argus  