A MITCHELLS Plain non-profit organisation (NPO) launched their own branded soccer, rugby and netball balls, designed for the harsh Cape Flats conditions. Unchain The Plain foundation (UTP) makes use of sport as a catalyst to bring about social cohesion and social transformation in gang and drug-ridden areas. They launched the Adopt A Ball campaign with a small gathering in Beacon Valley, at the Beacon Hill High School on Saturday. The campaign encourages individuals to buy a ball worth R120, which will then be donated to the organisation. UTP will then distribute those balls to children in Mitchells Plain. The organisation was founded by four individuals last year: Juven Rittles, Ryan Crouse, Mark Skriker and Gavin Skriker. With their identification of the lack of sporting participation in those areas, the foundation is worried about behavioural challenges which could make children more susceptible to gangsterism and drugs. They manufactured their own balls that are custom-designed for the local conditions. At the launch, Rittles said that they need companies to adopt balls, to hand it back to UTP in order to donate. “I am pleased that so many individuals and companies responded to our appeal. I am confident that this is a start of a long journey, and that together we will reimagine and reconstitute a better future for our children,” he said. During the event, 70 balls were auctioned in which South African netball umpire Shanaaz Macauley and her husband Denzyl donated 10. “We were raised in Mitchells Plain, we come from poor backgrounds, we did not have much back then. The least that we can do is show how we care. We want to keep children away from the streets,” said Macauley. Meanwhile, law student and rugby player at UWC Mekael Skriker, said: “I don't think there are people to give sportsman’s guidance in Mitchells Plain. I think it’s good for the organisation to get involved in the area so we can assist the pupils.” The 20-year-old added that the UTP is trying to make children aware of other sports, as soccer is common in the areas. “This will help keep children off the streets and away from gangsterism,” he said. 