Sunday marks the start of the official countdown to the 150th commemoration of the first black South African woman to obtain a university degree. Charlotte Mannya Maxeke, would, if she were still alive, celebrate her 150th birthday on April 7, 2021. The National Heritage Council in partnership with the Charlotte Maxeke Foundation and the Department of Arts and Culture were spearheading a drive to honour Maxeke's legacy, teachings and raise awareness about her contribution to history. A Johannesburg hospital was named after Maxeke as well as one of the country's submarines. According to history records Maxeke travelled to Europe as part of a choir in early 1896 and sang to audiences in major cities there including one at Queen Victoria's 1897 Jubilee. At the conclusion of the European tour, the choir also toured the United States and through the efforts of the African Methodist Episcopal Church she studied and obtained a B.Sc degree from the Wilberforce University in 1901, becoming the first black South African woman to earn a degree. One of the drivers of the celebrations, Vuyiswa Lamfiti said the start of the countdown will be marked with the distribution to schools nationally of 150 000 copies of the book, Beauty Of The Heart - Life and Times of Charlotte Maxeke by former journalist Zubaider Jaffer as part of the Phakama Africa campaign. The book is an account of Maxeke's life as an educator, social activist, women's rights proponent and fighter against colonial rule. Lamfiti said Maxeke would always be remembered for her inspirational speeches and call for free education. One of her most often used quotes was: " This work is not for yourselves, kill that spirit of self, and do not live above your people but live with them. If you can rise, bring someone with you". '"We would like people to buy the book either for their own personal reading or donate to schools and communities to promote reading and preservation of history," Lamfiti said. The build-up to the Year of Charlotte Maxeke would also be marked by various activities, some of which would be focused  on challenges faced by women and girls.