"Do something you love and you'll never work a day in your life" rings true for Mandisa Nduli, 30, who did a 180 degree turn when she changed  her career direction. The Green Point resident went from a civil engineer to full-time wellness practitioner. “I felt there was more to life and I wasn't happy with the confinement I felt/perceived engineering had offered me at that time of my life. I had worked in the engineering field prior to and after completing my studies but (without sounding dramatic), it simply wasn't enough for me at the time. I found yoga in 2013 and was in love and have since, been falling in love with life and myself over, and over again,” she said. The Durban-born wellness practitioner offers yoga, mindfulness/meditation massage and access bars®️, a gentle hands-on modality. “Mind body health has always been of importance. In order to be a well rounded human.  mental, physical and spiritual health is something one cannot  ignore. This pandemic has been a reminder for us all.The industry has obviously taken a dip but as we continue to grow. We are learning to find the opportunity to adapt to these times. I would like to remind people to go deeper within with self love practices during this time. The creative space is incredibly enjoyable and stimulating,” said Nduli, who completed her Bachelor of Technology in civil (water) engineering in 2012 and has her yoga, mindfulness and access bars®️ coaching certificates. Inspired by her parents Zanele and Ponono, Nduli said: “ My father for his business acumen and wisdom and mother for her adapt or die, trendsetter and the world is full of opportunity nature. I'm on a mission to get people connected to themselves again, to wake up to what keeps them alive, to spark that passion/creativity,” she added. Her sister Nobantu Mfeka said Nduli is an authentic person with a burst and passion for life. “I'm inspired by her passion and drive against all odds. She has broken through traditional walls to achieve success in her work, emotionally and financially,” she said. Weekend Argus