This year has been one of self-reflection and forging her own path, both on and off the screen, for Lucifer star, South African-born actress Lesley-Ann Brandt. Brandt’s journey with the US drama continues, as its fifth season made its debut on Friday. She plays the role of Mazikeen, a demon that accompanied the title character, played by Tom Ellis, out of hell to take up residency in present-day Los Angeles. According to Brandt, season five will see Mazikeen reflecting on herself and the people around her. “She spends a big portion of this year drawing boundaries and really defining relationships. There’s lots of action, singing and a very emotional storyline with her mother, Lilith. This is by far our best season yet and I’m thrilled with my character’s arc this year. I think fans will be really happy with what we’ve done.” Although season five was meant to be the last, it was announced in June that the show had been renewed for a sixth and final season. During the lockdown in the US, Brandt has been busy working on her own yet-to-be-announced project. Last year, in a season 4 episode of the show, Brandt caught the attention of South African audiences when her character briefly spoke Afrikaans, representing it as Lillum, the language of demons. Brandt said her local mannerisms were well received by her colleagues. “I always laugh and say Maze’s attitude is very much like Cape Town girls - you really don’t want to cross us and get on our bad sides.” Brandt was born and grew up in Greenhaven, near Athlone. Following her graduation from Pinelands High School in 1999, she emigrated to New Zealand where she pursued an acting and modelling career, landing a role on the international TV series, Spartacus. She moved to Los Angeles in 2010 and could be seen in supporting roles in TV series such as Chuck, CSI: NY and Gotham, before landing a main role on Lucifer. Despite the globe-trotting, Brandt has not forgotten when she came from. “I’d say my sense of humour is one of my biggest South African traits as well as my empathy for those in need. When you grow up seeing street kids as young as my son, you help. It’s what South Africans do.” In a message to aspiring performers, she said: “Never take no for an answer. Don’t look to Instagram or Twitter. Do the work, read plays, watch films, find acting teachers and then just start. That’s what I did.” * Lucifer is available on Netflix. Weekend Argus