“As soon as my size two feet touched the international stage, I knew this was what I wanted to do for the rest of my life,” said Reece Lewis, 18, who has stomped her opponents not only in South Africa, but across the globe. With no competitions at the moment, Lewis is on mission to continue where she left off. The Cliq Dance Studio member represented South Africa at the DanceStar World Finals in Croatia last year. The former The Settlers High pupil placed in all six disciplines she took part in. This included a first place in the jazz duo category with teammate Brandon Herbst and in the girls' commercial dance group category senior league section. “It’s a pleasure knowing your country trusts in you and your capabilities. International competitions are one of the few places where nobody plays games. Dancers come to win and are focussed on delivering their best performance,” she said. The Parow resident represented South Africa for the first time in Las Vegas in 2012. “At age 7, a friend introduced me to The Dance Project. My teachers were passionate and made every child feel at ease. "At 10 I experienced a whole new world of dance. I and my former crew were awarded a gold medal at the Hip Hop International competition and an opportunity to represent South Africa in Las Vegas." Although competitions have been postponed or cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Lewis has kept herself busy with TikTok videos. She was part of Sho Madjozi’s official TikTok video #SpiritsUp. She’s also done a few YouTube videos with choreographer and founder of the Untimitive Dance Company, Rudi Smit. “I never made a big deal out of TikTok and posted for the fun of it. Until February, when I attended a creators' meet as a plus-one, then realised how much fun it was and how much this application can be used to market yourself as a dancer. The app has helped boost my confidence, showcased my passion and given me a platform of exposure,” she said. *Throughout August, the Weekend Argus Jellybean Journal will feature women and girls in sport. 