Cape Town - Cape fur seal mothers may nurse their young for several years longer than previously thought. This could potentially improve their offspring's chances of survival. The unusual behaviour was published in the journal African Zoology in an article entitled Prolonged nursing in Cape fur seals (arctocephalus pusillus pusillus) at Cape Cross colony, Namibia. Researchers from the non-profit organisation Namibian Dolphin Project and a research project run by Sea Search Africa, a collective of scientists and students working in the area of marine mammal science, made the observation at the Cape Cross colony in Namibia from February to June last year. Cape Cross is a small headland in the along the Skeleton Coast in western Namibia, one of the world’s largest breeding colonies of Cape fur seals and hosts up to 210 000 animals. Adult male seals are only present during breeding season, while females stay at Cape Cross all year long with their offspring, conducting their hunting in the nearby waters. Cape fur seals breed in Southern Africa, with a range from Southern Angola to Port Elizabeth. Lead author Dr Anna Osiecka, said that Cape fur seals normally wean (remove) their young from feeding within a year. “Some may choose to keep the bond with their pups or even feed unrelated pups. As seal milk is rich in fat and protein, this extra ‘free’ food can give their offspring an upper hand by allowing the young to grow larger and improve their chances of survival,” she said. Osiecka stressed that for male pups, this can translate into better chances to defend a harem (place reserved for females) and father offspring when they grow up. She said that the observations proved that mother-and-pup relations are not as simple as previously thought. Prolonged nursing may also benefit the mother by removing excess milk to prevent mastitis which is an inflammation of breast tissue that sometimes involves an infection. “This could provide a year without a pregnancy, allowing the mother to recover her physical condition,” she said. According to marine mammal expert and director of Sea Search, Dr Simon Elwen, these animals were hunted to the brink of extinction in the last century. “With appropriate protection measures they have recovered and became numerous throughout their range,” he said. Once matured, Cape fur seal females give birth to a single pup annually. Pups are weaned at 10-12 months and getting separated from their mother earlier often results in death. To sustain this long period of nursing, mothers spend about half of the time out at sea feeding, leaving their young alone onshore in big nursery groups. Stellenbosch University’s department of botany and zoology’s, Dr Tess Gridley, who currently leads the research project on their biology and behaviour in South Africa and Namibia said: “In general there are around 1.7 million Cape fur seals so their numbers are still fairly healthy, said Gridley who is leading research on Cape fur seal in South Africa and Namibia.” Seals are being fed up until two to three years old. This needs to be clarified that this is not normal and we need to still establish why, she added. With colleagues from France, they are investigating how mothers and pups recognise each other, said Gridley. "We have also observed mourning behaviour, where females will guard dead pups and protect the pups for many hours.There is a lot to learn from studying Cape fur seals and we have several ongoing studies both in Namibia and South Africa," she explained. Two Oceans Aquarium Wildlife management programme co-ordinator Brett Glasby said. “We have not seen the full findings of the study yet. The most notable is juvenile seals nursing beyond the normal age." He explained that for the mothers, nursing utilises a high amount of energy. "Without a pup the milk will dry up and they will go back into season. The nursing of older juveniles could limit milk infections,” he said. Weekend Argus