Cape Town - Volunteers have teamed up to help wrap-up non-profit organisation (NPO) Amy Foundation’s “Duvet Project”, to keep little ones warm throughout these cold winter nights. Formerly known as The Amy Biehl Foundation Trust, the NPO served township areas for over 22 years and has various after-school and youth skills development programmes. The organisation's focus shifted during the current lockdown as they conducted two feeding schemes in Gugulethu and Bonteheuwel. They served meals for 1 500 community members weekly, and provide online classes to beneficiaries. The foundation was named after American student Amy Biehl, and was founded by her parents. On August 25 1993, Biehl’s life was cut short in an act of political mob violence in Gugulethu, said the organisation. She worked with members of the ANC at the UWC’s Community Law Centre on the new Constitution and women’s rights, as well as helped register voters for the country’s first free elections in 1994. South African artist, Aviva Pelham, who is known for her opera and musicals among other works, is an ambassador of the organisation. About 42 duvets from a warehouse in Cape Town have been paid for and delivered to the organisation. Pelham said this is an incredibly cold winter and that the drive is focussed on keeping children warm. “Especially during the lockdown where life is more difficult for them,” she said. Another volunteer, Erica Zimet, said, “When there is knowledge that  there is a warehouse full of unsold duvets close to hand it is just obvious and inevitable that we had to mobilise. To do something for the children of the Amy Foundation." Amy Foundation managing director Kevin Chaplin said Covid-19 has negatively affected the foundation. “We can’t access our learners on-site. During the lockdown they have to be at home,” he said. The foundation's funding has dwindled and they are in need of R9 million to be able to run our programs. “During lockdown we haven't been able to receive much of the funding which is a challenge. I am hoping that we are able to meet our target by February next year,” he stressed. Chaplin said that through this project they can assist with some of the children's needs. “Our aim is to reach 200 learners. Each duvet cost R200,” he said. To donate R200 for duvet donations or any contributions contact Michelle Bagley at michelle@amyfoundation.co.za Weekend Argus