Cape Town - Enough is enough: That was the message the Move One Million protest movement delivered on Saturday. The group of around 2 000 people gathered at the Grand Parade in the CBD, along with several other organisations protesting corruption, farm attacks, and gender-based violence. The gathering was monitored by police and areas surrounding Parliament, such as Roeland Street, were cordoned off with barbed wire; no confrontations with protesters were reported. “We worked quite hard with the police this morning to make sure it was a nice, peaceful environment,” said Move One Million founder Jarette Petzer. “It’s worked out quite nicely.” According to Petzer, the movement originated as a spin-off of #ImStaying, a social media group that promotes national inclusivity and upliftment. “What we stand for and represent is change,” Petzer explained. “We stand up and represent ‘no’ to corruption, ‘yes’ to direct elections where the people can start to become empowered. We are going to start to hold those in power to account. This is the start of our campaign leading up to the elections. We are going to mass mobilise our country, work in our townships and community leaders, get involved with community projects and build unity through service.” Amid the peaceful protest, Billy Boucher, a protester, said he stood for electoral reforms. “We’re being bullied by an incompatible government, and we must change the way we elect our leaders,” he said. “It’s a complete mess, and a little bit of order would be in order.” Gail Pilwan Jacobs, 46, a participant of the movement, said: “Our people are dying and our people are hungry. We are all angry. We want our lives back and have our country back for our children's future.” She told Weekend Argus that the protest was about issues South Africans face, while she held up a placard which read “stop ANC”. “With this unity, everyone is standing together. We are united, no racism, we are all South Africans and we want to live in harmony." Meanwhile, Stop Farm Murders/Attacks Movement organiser Debbie Els has been part of protests every weekend for the past five months at Parliament. “The reason for us being here is for the government to listen to us. The farmers are being murdered daily and we need it to stop,” said Els. She said the elderly were being "murdered, hacked and raped". “That is why we are protesting, we want the whole world to know what is going on in South Africa. What the government is doing is not right. They are not protecting our citizens,” added Els. In support of the movement against gender-based violence, she said murders and rape need to end. “The government must not take lip service, they must act now and do something about it. We are angry,” she said. Weekend Argus