Cape Town - Amid fresh allegations of racism and bullying at the Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, the country’s largest public sector union has called for the removal of UCT vice-chancellor Mamokgethi Phakeng. As complaints surfaced at UCT’s training hospital the National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) has questioned Phakeng’s perceived silence on racism and sexism on campus and related training facilities and the slow transformation process on her watch. A meeting was held on Friday in response to the complaints of racism at the hospital’s department of neurosurgery. Paediatric Surgical head and head of all surgical divisions at Red Cross, Professor Alp Numanoglu, called a meeting to discuss the claims of racism and bullying of black, female and foreign doctors. Consultant paediatric neurosurgeon at Red Cross Nico Enslin complained in an email to colleagues: “I am aware of instances where the anaesthetic consultants and HOD loses their cool for various reasons and we all handle it. “But there seems to be an increase in bullying behaviour towards my registrars in theatre at night...I am worried that my guys perceive it as racially, or foreigner-motivated treatment towards them. Precarious waters to sail on,” he wrote. At the meeting attended by seven black staff and more than 20 medics from the hospital, grievances were heard, where some doctors said they were not mean in their actions but questioned the competence of doctors. Feedback was expected to be provided to staff on Monday. On Saturday spokesperson Elijah Moholola said UCT was not aware of the meeting or any racism claims at Red Cross. “This claim is being put to the university without any substantiation,” he said. Busobengwe Magadla, the union’s Ikapa South regional chair, accused Phakeng of impeding the progress of black African academics, including staff at the hospitals which form part of UCT medical school. “We must mobilise our members at UCT to go for this VC who opts to be silent on these issues,” said Magadla. Magadla added had it not been for the lockdown restrictions, the union would have already embarked on protest action against Phakeng, who he referred to as a “puppet” for not championing black African academics. The recently released Transformation Report 2019 raised concerns about people being silenced when they raised challenges around transformation. “We planned to picket as a build-up to something bigger, but lockdown regulations have prevented us from doing so. We will not leave any stone unturned in removing people who oppose transformation,” he said. He added that there was growing anger on campus over Phakeng’s silence following claims of racism and bullying against UCT postgraduate women surgeons, including several of the country’s first black registrars within traditionally white surgical divisions stationed at Groote Schuur Hospital. One of the cases involving a student, he said, was close to being resolved, even though she had not been questioned by the university regarding her claims. “We aren’t for quantitative transformation but a qualitative one, so we are not going to postpone transformation any longer. It’s high time we expose and get rid of people opposed to transformation at UCT,” he said. The university has faced a litany of controversies during Phakeng’s tenure following a report by the ombudsman which detailed 37 complaints of bullying against the vice-chancellor. In March, one of the country’s top dermatologists, an African woman, was overlooked for the dean of the Faculty of Health Sciences role in favour of associate professor Lionel Green-Thompson. University spokesperson Elijah Moholola, said UCT’s recruitment processes had been rigorous and thorough and the appointment processes were aligned with the national legislation, which recognises black Africans, Indians and coloured people as part of the employment equity candidates. “The appointed candidate is a coloured male with an extensive experience in the health sciences,” he said. Moholola rejected the allegations against Phakeng and said UCT has always recognised protest action as an important exercise of democracy. “The UCT executive has equally always been open and willing to engage on multiple issues through a number of university channels,” he said. Since Phakeng took office in July 2018, of the 11 appointments made, eight were black, three were white with five women and six men. A senior member of Phakeng’s executive said the claims were untrue. “Take for example the allegation that she (Phakeng) is anti-transformation, particularly when it comes to black women, the VC donates voluntarily 10% of her salary monthly for a scholarship particularly for black women. In addition, she has her own foundation that supports young girls. “Not only does she donate her own money to this foundation, but whenever she has speaking engagements, any money earned is for her foundation. “She does not take any money personally. Her scholarship fund at UCT supports black women postgraduate students. When Covid struck, she donated a third of her salary to a Covid emergency fund for three months to help students in distress.” A member of council alleged Phakeng had asked former council chairperson Sipho Pityana for an increase in her R3.2 million salary. The request was turned down. Regarding the bullying allegations, the executive said the VC has not been shown the complaints and that council was dealing with the matter. Phakeng referred all requests for comment to UCT’s spokespeople. Weekend Argus