Worcester-born star Cheswyn Ruiters (aka Cheswyn Ray) is set to shine in his virtual live show and will release new music later this month. The 24-year-old's show will be presented by Lunchtime Live and is expected to entertain audiences in the comfort of your homes. The “Maak My Famous” season one winner rose to national fame in 2019 when he captured the hearts his weekly stage performances during the kykNET reality TV competition. Immediately after the win last year, he released his debut single A Reason, written by Jarrad Ricketts, and he is currently working on his next single. Ray told Weekend Argus that the live show would consist of him sharing his stories and a little about his plans. “People only got to see my Maak My Famous journey up to this point. On this show I get to tell them what life was like before Maak my Famous but also my journey after Maak My Famous,” he said. People can also expect a tribute to those who died during the pandemic . “I’ve had the most amazing year working with the Maak My Famous and All Star Productions team (Emo Adams' management company which I am signed to). So I’m excited to tell people what my journey has been like,” said Ruiters. The audience can prepare themselves for some golden oldies like Luther Vandross and John Legend, among other artists. “I want to be as versatile as possible so i'm going to take people on my gospel journey and take them on an inspirational journey,” he added. The songwriter said that this is his first solo show and that he has been busy with projects for the Herberg Kinderhuis and Nuwe hoop school for deaf. “This is my first show I’m doing alone after Maak my Famous so this is something super personal for me,” he said. Ruiters explained that he took the time during lockdown to write music. “I felt that from September it's time to release new music and shows. I made a home made music video of my first song A Reason and I asked people to send videos of them singing along to the song and made it part of the music video,” he added. With regards to making ends meet as a local artist during lockdown has been tough. “Most artists make their income from live performances and lockdown restricted us from doing that,” stressed Ruiters. He hopes to release a full debut album within the coming year and is currently in studio writing and composing some new material in Afrikaans and English. The virtual live show is on Sunday September 20 at 2pm. Tickets are R70 at Quicket.