Southern right whales usually holiday in Cape waters this time of the year treating whale watchers to a spectacular show of breaching, fluking, spouting, and spyhopping. Morukuru Beach Lodge is situated at Koppie Alleen, along the unspoilt coastline  in De Hoop Nature Reserve and is the perfect spot for a getaway and to watch the whales. De Hoop Nature Reserve has towering white sand dunes, limestone cliffs, rock pools and coastal fynbos. With domestic travel now available, this destination is an ideal road trip and change of pace from the hustle and bustle of city life. Morukuru Beach Lodge has four spacious and comfortable suites offering panoramic ocean views, and a honeymoon suite with views of the surrounding sand dunes as well as the Indian Ocean. The lodge has been built with sensitivity to the environment. Due to the remote location the lodge is fully off the grid. Electricity is generated by solar panels, and for the odd longer cloudy periods there is a back-up generator. Hot water is produced by pellet burners and there is water-based underfloor heating. You can enjoy lazy days by the pool, sundowners on the first floor rooftop terrace or intimate moments in the sheltered courtyard. Options for adventure seekers, with or without a guide, include, dune boarding, mountain biking, nature trekking or a marine walk. Request a picnic basket and blanket, head off and savour a secluded lunch on the beach, in the dunes or among the fynbos. A guided marine walk offers insight into the amazing life in the rock pools.  Guided fynbos walks and hikes show the incredible diversity and beauty of the vegetation. You can also enjoy a guided 4x4 fynbos nature drive  and explore the De Hoop Nature Reserve. These nature drives offer a good opportunity to spot wildlife in the park. Then there are various beach games, such as volleyball, cricket and croquet, as well as snorkelling in the protected rock pools. Guests at Morukuru Beach Lodge enjoy complimentary use of outdoor equipment (snorkels, masks, water shoes, wetsuits, mountain bikes, sand boards, ponchos, gumboots, beach umbrella, towels). A minimum stay of two nights is recommended to fully appreciate the location and all the activities on offer. The 36 000 hectares of the De Hoop conservation area is a World Heritage Site comprising rich biodiversity and more than 50km of pristine coastline. A 19km vlei (wetland) stretches across the reserve, which is on the Ramsar list of Wetlands of International Importance, established by the  UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation. July to the end of September is best for whale-watching, but you stand a very good chance of a sighting whales until November, as well as seeing dolphins, sharks and seals. Animal species in the reserve include bontebok, Cape mountain zebra, eland, baboons, rock hyraxes and the occasional rooikat (caracal) or even the elusive Cape leopard. Just three hours drive from Cape Town, Morukuru Beach Lodge is  halfway between Cape Town and Knynsa/Plettenberg Bay along the Garden Route. All meals, snacks, soft drinks and two guided activities a day, shared with the other guests, are included in the daily rate.