checked - W and WJA LOCAL singer-songwriter Tye Platinum, 35, wants to explore rekindling relationships in his new single That’s Why I Love You. Set for release on Friday, the song is about the themes of reassurance and revisiting past romances. Real name Theodore Smidt, the former The Voice contestant grew up in Ravensmead. From the age of nine, he already had a passion for music. This passion later developed into lyric writing, composing and arranging music. Now signed to LRI Productions, Smidt had the privilege to grace some of the country's most prestigious stages such as the Cape Town International Jazz Festival. The entire process of his debut single took about three weeks to complete. “I try my best not to rush the process,” he said. He explained that the song was inspired by the need to get back to love and to a wholesome loving human experience. “I was mainly working behind the scenes composing TV jingles and writing for other artists. “At the same time I was working on finding a sound that I resonated with,” he said. Smidt added that the call to release music and connect with people through it, was ringing loudly. And he finally answered that call. A former student of what is now the Cape Music Institute, he co-founded the band Blackcurrant. That was where he played the role of lead singer and songwriter until 2011. He said listeners can expect an album that they can enjoy from the first minute to the very last. “They are break up to make up songs, songs that give you hope and inspire and spark conversation,” he said. The album is almost 10 years in the making and an opportunity that gives him goosebumps. “I am excited to make my debut on the Soulful Sundowner stage, a two day music festival hosted by LRI Productions on the 18 and 19 December,” he said. His uncle, John Smidt said: “Tye’s passion to achieve has always amazed me and many around him. “His ideas and dreams are sometimes radical, yet he would always push to achieve whatever he has set out to do.” The song will be available on major digital music outlets. 