The Cape Town theatre industry is preparing for the fallout of having to close the curtain once again amid the second wave of Covid-19. Some smaller theatre venues in the city are, however, preparing to keep the spotlights on throughout the festive season. The South African Guild of Actors said the level of uncertainty in the country’s theatre scene, and prominent venue closures affected the industry’s ability to revive. “The circumstances surrounding Covid-19 have thrown everything into disarray,” said guild vice-chairperson Adrian Galley. “Work opportunities for actors have become pretty scarce and have forced them to become resourceful. Pre-planning, rehearsals, all of this has to happen a good few months before a production reaches the stage. With the various lockdowns and fluctuating case level, that certainty is not there.” On Tuesday, The Baxter Theatre Centre announced it would be suspending performances from December 19 to the end of January in the wake of increased Covid-19 infections. The suspension affects a number of productions that were scheduled at the venue, including comedian Marc Lottering’s new show, Lottering on Lockdown. “This was not an easy decision for us to make,” said chief executive Lara Foot. “As it is, we were closed for seven months of 2020, with a massive loss of income to the theatre and to artists. However, we must do what we can to help mitigate the risk of spreading the virus. When looking at the current pattern of increased infections in this established resurgence, we have no choice and keeping our spaces and public safe is imperative.” At the same time, Pieter Toerien Productions announced the Theatre on the Bay would delay its run of Alan Committie’s new show The Lying King, citing safety concerns and shutting up shop not long after reopening its box office in November. On Thursday, the Cape Town City Ballet announced that the last performances of its Back on Stage! Show was scheduled for yesterday (December 12) at Artscape Theatre Centre. These performances were suddenly postponed until next year. The ballet company’s chief executive, Debbie Turner, cited Covid-19 safety concerns as the reason for the postponement. “In doing this, we are helping to reduce the risk of spreading the virus, while giving our loyal audiences the opportunity to enjoy the magic of a live ballet performance under strict Covid-19 protocols,” she said. “The experience of live performance enriches our lives, uplifts our spirits and celebrates the immense talent we have in South Africa.” The cancellation comes as Artscape is set to close up shop for the remainder of 2020, resuming operations in early January. Despite this, the venue is advising show producers to hold off until mid-year. “We’ve advised them that while we will take bookings for the whole of 2021, they should rather look at the possibility that by July and August, the regulations would allow for a larger capacity at theatre venues,” said marketing manager Simone Heradien. “We’re very cognisant of the possibility that the regulations will not be relaxed and restrictions may be amended.” Meanwhile, other small venues are successfully continuing to host shows during the 2020 festive season, such as the Masque Theatre in Muizenberg. “We have been watching the numbers daily since lockdown level 1 was implemented, and of course are very concerned with the resurgence,” said theatre manager Patricia Kitson. “The production team initiated very careful planning from the start, around working within a Covid-19-aware world. The cast was kept small, and ways of rehearsing and distanced 'staging' meant they were limiting actors' exposure. “For the performances themselves, the show is only one act, audiences avoid close contact in the bar during interval, and we are working on ways to encourage them before and after the show to sit outside.” The recently reopened Kalk Bay Theatre reported there was a steady demand for its shows. “What has been noticeable is the difference in people who have been coming to shows,” said co-owner Vanessa Harris. “When we weren’t worried about Covid, we had a much older audience. Now it seems to be 35- to 55-year-olds. As of yet, we’re not struggling or losing sales.”