Cape Town - Like most girls, Christine Tomlinson, 18, likes to dress up, sing and cook. However, the difference is she’s also a rising cricket star. Christine is set to represent the Starlights at the Women’s T20 Super League (WSL) at Newlands on Monday. The competition consists of four teams, with each side playing one another once. The team with the most points at the end of the competition will be crowned champions. Christine, from Melkbosstrand, said: “I am extremely grateful and thankful to be playing in the Women's T20 Super League. It’s certainly an honour and privilege to be playing for the Starlights. At this year’s competition, I want to bowl well and have a good economy.” The Grade 12 pupil at Milnerton High School first represented Western Province when she was 13. She was also part of last year’s Women’s T20 Super League. She played six games, bowled 18 overs and took four wickets with a bowling economy of 5.78 for the Duchesses. “T20 is my favourite format as the match is short and there is a lot of pressure which makes it more exciting,” she said. She was introduced to cricket by her twin brother Kyle. “I used to watch my brother play cricket. One day I went with him to a private training session. I asked if I could have a turn to bowl, the coach agreed and said  I have talent in my bowling. After that I couldn’t stop bowling and asked my parents if I could start playing cricket. I would definitely say my brother had an impact in my life. If it wasn’t for Kyle, I wouldn’t have been where I am today. My goal is to represent the women’s national cricket team,” said Christine. She added that she is a fan of Proteas fast bowler, Kagiso Rabada. “He is a phenomenal bowler and strives for excellence,” she said. Her mother, Lynn, described Christine as a sweet and caring person, who knows what she wants out of life. “A little progress each day adds up to big results. I believe she has the potential to make the Proteas team some day,” she said. Tournament director, Johan Weyers, said, “The Women’s Super League 3.0. is a perfect opportunity for players who have performed admirably in the last cricket calendar year to be rewarded for their hard work and dreams are realised with their selections in this T20 tournament. This tournament will contribute a great deal in ensuring that we continue to produce quality female cricketers that will one day go on and represent Cricket South Africa at international level.” While Christine is focusing on the upcoming tournament, Kyle is preparing to rewrite maths paper 2. “I feel a little irritated that I have to rewrite something that I have already done and put in so much time and effort, because of a few people that cheated. My sister and I have a good relationship. We admire each other’s strengths and abilities, (for) example she wishes that she could be more academic like myself and I wish that I could achieve more in cricket like she does,” he said. Weekend Argus