Cape Town recording artist Chad Saaiman began the festive season with a new single called Wrong Again  that talks about being misunderstood. The single, which was released earlier this week, focuses on dispute and miscommunication between people. Born in Portlands, Mitchell’s Plain and raised in Athlone for most of his childhood, the singer is also a part of cover group The Black Ties. Saaiman said writing the song took him three hours, but its production was put on hold, and was eventually completed in October. “It was inspired by two disagreements I had on the same day. One with my producer and one with my partner. I felt I wasn’t getting my message across coherently and clearly and it was a bit frustrating,” he explained. Saaiman is also a co-creator and host of the digital music show The DNA. “We shot season 1 during lockdown and I got to really know artists such as YoungstaCPT. The show is available on YouTube and Season 2 will be out next year,” he said. Saaiman will perform at the upcoming Soulful Sundowners two day music show. The festival, which will take place on December 19 and 20, will feature a line-up of South African musicians and DJs. Organised by LRI Productions, the Van Der Stel Sports Club in Stellenbosch will be transformed to accommodate the outdoor live music festival. Other confirmed acts are Kerwin, Janice and Tye Platinum. Songstress Janice will perform her own music and cover songs of her favourite artists. She said: “Allow me to take you on a musical journey with soulful, warm vocal tones together with a heart connection to set your soul on fire.” She is most excited to showcase her hit singles Liar Liar  and Traphouse. Lyle Ryan, chief executive of LRI Productions, said he hoped the festival would become an annual phenomenon. The venue can host 3 000 people. A 2m distance between people will be maintained due to Covid-19 measures. “When I planned this show, I decided to double the line-up so that we can have as many artists as possible on stage. By buying a ticket, you will not only be able to watch a great show, but also help Cape Town artists,” he added. Tickets are R150 each at Quicket. To stream or download Saaiman’s new single Wrong Again visit Apple Music or Spotify. 