There are only two people left behind bars who were accused in the robbery and murder trial of Taliep Petersen in 2006, and Weekend Argus can reveal that another one of the accused, Jefferson Tion Snyders died three years ago. Snyders was convicted on the robbery charge in the murder trial of Taliep Petersen, his father this week confirmed that his son never wanted to be in the spotlight after he served his sentence. The revelation of Snyders death comes after the Pietersen family this week released a media statement lambasting the Department of Correctional Services for not consulting them in the parole of Abdoer Raasiet Emjedi. Emjedi was sentenced to 24 years imprisonment charged with the robbery and murder of music icon Taliep Petersen - he was released on November 11. On December 16, it will mark 14 years since the murder of Taliep Petersen. The crime, masterminded by Petersen’s wife Najwa Dirk, included the robbery and murder of the musician which took place at his Grasmere Street, Athlone home on December 16, 2006. Dirk was the accused number one in the murder trial and when found guilty was sentenced to 28 years imprisonment in the Western Cape High Court on February 11, 2009. Snyders was accused number four in the high-profile trial and was never found guilty of murder, but convicted of a robbery charge. Among other things, cash, a cellphone and a video camera were stolen from Petersen’s home that fateful night he was shot and killed. During the trial, when Snyders testified in the trial and from then he turned to the Petersen family and asked for forgiveness, an act of remorse the Petersen family accepted. Taliep Petersen’s first wife Madeegha Anders was shocked to hear that Snyders had been shot and killed three years ago and admitted she had no idea he had died. She referred all media queries to her daughter Jawaahier Petersen who said she had heard of Snyders death but not any details. Jawaahier said Snyders needs to be viewed differently in life and death: “If we had to compare it, his hands were the cleanest if Najwa and Emjedi’s hands were the dirtiest... Snyders was the cleanest... I genuinely and truly believe he was in the wrong place at the wrong time.  He left the scene before the murder and went to the car when he realised that they were there to murder someone, murder was never his intention.” She also voiced her fear that Dirk  might be paroled without the family being alerted and given an opportunity to oppose her release. She said: “If the justice system could blindside us with Emjedi’s release and we understand he got amnesty for six months and after 11 years was let out - the possibility exists then that Najwa could be up for parole. But I want to say, on the record if they think we’re fighting for Emjedi they’re not ready for the fight we’ll put up for Najwa’s parole.” Snyders told the Western Cape High Court in 2008, that he was not aware of the murder plot and when he realised his accomplices were going to commit murder he fled from the house, a version accepted by Taliep’s family. Since the media spotlight dimmed when the four were sentenced, Snyders kept his head down in prison, was praised for his motivational speaking efforts to fellow inmates and was even granted early parole, something which his family also didn’t publicise. Even after serving his sentence and becoming a free man, Snyders opted to not draw any media attention to himself, something his father, Peter Snyders said was for the best. “When he applied for parole the Petersen family were consulted and gave their blessing that he be released,” said Peter. He said he told his son that the forgiveness he received from the Petersen family he shouldn’t take for granted. Peter tried to help his son get back onto his feet and for a short period of time the two worked together in Peter’s recycling business. But just over a year after gaining his freedom, in 2016 Snyders moved out of his dad’s home in Mitchells Plain. Peter said this was when his son started making dubious life choices: “He married Waleed Emjedi’s sister and I warned him that it might not be a good idea to marry the sister of the man who was accused alongside you, rather run away from danger now instead of running towards it,” said Peter. There was a real concern that Snyders would get involved with drug addicts and known criminals Peter said were in his life. “His wife was not a really good influence in his life….suddenly, out of the blue, he made bad choices again...even though he had tried to keep working with me in the recycling business,” said Peter. When Snyders was shot and killed in November 2017, Peter said it also closed a chapter in his life: “His (Snyders) life was light and shade, but ultimately when he was sentenced he wanted to change for the better. When he was behind bars he did daily motivational talks to fellow inmates every morning and every evening. And when he was released he would take me to these people who were with him in jail and they all compliment him and thanked him for what he’d done.” When contacted by Weekend Argus, Peter said he wanted to respect the forgiveness the Petersen family extended to his son and this was a motivating factor for not alerting the media or even the Petersen’s to Snyders’ death. 