With some experience under his belt, a new entrepreneur  jumped into the deep end of  a swimming pool installation and restoration business. Now Sean Bergman from Colorado Park in Mitchells Plain is growing a profitable business and is keeping his head above water. Bergman, a former warehouse manager with 15 years of experience in the industry, left his job in 2017 and was unemployed until late last year. A chance reconnection with an old friend Carla Bergman led him to start Bergcraft Pools & Wellpoint Services. Bergman, a childhood friend who is in Australia advised him to get in touch with her brother Donovan Smith in Cape Town, who does swimming pool installations, restorations and borehole drilling. Bergman made  contact and Smith was more than willing to teach   show him the ropes. Bergman but then the coronavirus pandemic hit. He said: “When the hard lockdown started I was stuck at home and I was thinking and planning and wondering did I acquire enough knowledge to do this and then I did my homework.” He added: “I found out how many swimming pools there are in South Africa and I went to my wife and told her I think that I can do swimming pools. I can’t install it yet but I can restore it.” With no start up capital, his wife assisted him financially and he managed to get the tools he needed. He said he did what he could while the hard lockdown was still in effect: “I registered my company online so I didn’t need to stand in queues and all that, I had video calls with the sub contractor and he agreed to work with me.” Bergman got two of his unemployed friends involved in his new venture and since then they have worked together on 27 swimming pools including installations. He recalled walking into the bank in July . “When I started I went to open a bank account, and they said I needed a business plan and I didn’t have one. But I had googled everything so I told the lady that there are over 800 000 pools in South Africa and if I get one percent of that Bergcraft will be successful.” He left with a business bank account and the motivation to draw up a business plan which he has since completed. He said his business competes with other pool businesses : “People are charging exorbitant prices for pools and then it only really costs a third of the price. Me and my team are happy to walk away doing more pools without overcharging people.” Bergman said part of his winning formula up until now is he follows up a few weeks after completion to check in with clients and whether they are happy with the work done. Bergman said he was in the pool business for the long haul and hopes to expand his business. 