 FIVE of the six by-elections up for grabs this week were DA wards and have rival parties in the province salivating at the chance to test their support base ahead of next year’s local government elections. This Wednesday, voters will go to the polls for the last time this year to select new councillors for wards in the City of Cape Town, Langerberg, Overstrand and Oudsthoorn municipalities. Three by-elections will take place in Oudsthoorn after a trio of DA councillors from ward, four, five and ten resigned in September citing rampant racism in the party.  As such political parties in the area are working hard to ensure a win that could shake up the power dynamics in the municipality’s council. Currently the DA holds a majority with 11 of the 24 seats, down from 14. The DA’s Constituency Head in the region, Eleanore Bouw-Spies said they have been engaging with community members to ensure that their service deliver needs continue to be met. “Our activists have been on the ground and what is in our favour is that our candidates have been active in those communities even though they were not office bearers so this made our work in communicating much easier,” she said. “But I am not one to be overly ambitious about the outcome but we have laid a solid foundation. “With regards to the councillors that resigned, their experience of the party is not what I have had nor is it that of our candidates so ours was not to go into communities to explain the viewpoint of the former councillors. We were also not confronted by people talking about the issue so our priority remained focused on service delivery because they (former councillors) were clearly more concerned about internal party squabbles.” And in ward nine in Ashton at the Langeberg municipality the DA will be battling it out against five other candidates from three rival political parties, an independent as well as a candidate from the local civic association. The ward became vacant after its councillor, Niklaas Beginsel’s DA membership was revoked after he was  convicted on 12 counts of fraud amounting to R27 000 on a matter that occurred six years ago while he worked as a manager at a retail store. Another ward that will face heated contestation is Ward 115 in the CBD which became vacant after the DA’s councillor Dave Bryant resigned to fill a seat in National Parliament. The Good party, emboldened by their first by-election victory in George last month of a DA ward, is making a serious play for this ward as well. At a community meeting held earlier this week by the party’s leader Patricia de Lille and Brett Herron, the party’s candidate Joy Davids outlined the their priority for the issues affecting the communities that fall under it. “As this ward stretches from Salt River right up to Sea Point it is a very diverse, multicultural and multiracial one and has many businesses where the poor and homeless are facing similar issues,” she said. “Residents have a fear of loosing their homes due to high rates and water tariffs. “I encourage you not to be afraid of change but to embrace it. The fear of Inclusivity and integration (must be set aside) we need to bridge the gap that exists in this ward and work together.” The ANC has been using issues around affordable inner-city housing as a campaigning platform to reach out to voters. “These by-elections help us gage how strong our support on the ground is and establish where it can be improved and help us plan to come back stronger,” said the party’s Lerumo Kalako. “We will be putting up candidates in all the contested wards and have been doing door-to-door campaigns from our NEC members. For Ward 115, our candidate is a strong member in the community in both District Six and surrounding areas and understands the dynamics around the plight of communities for affordable housing in the CBD. We have also been engaging with different organisations around this issue of inner-city housing and the evictions,” he added. While the ANC is looking at making in-roads in DA controlled wards, they are also hoping to retain their single ward up for grabs in the Overstrand municipality which became vacant after the councillor resigned. Ward 12 will be contested by candidates from the ANC, EFF, DA and the Land Party. 