The Wintergreen range of topical analgesics and joint support products, has been developed by a rugby player and is synonymous with the game played in South Africa. Wintergreen has re-branded as they prepare to tackle the US market after announcing a partnership with USA Rugby, and the USA Eagles national team, and with this has launched their new international website, wintergreensport.com. Wintergreen is proud to be an official sponsor and technical analgesic support to W.P. Rugby and the DHL Stormers, as the brand has had a long-standing relationship with Rugby at all levels of the game. Wintergreen was developed by ex-rugby player Justin Clohessy, in consultation with sports therapy professionals, and specifically aimed at supporting players in the high-impact sport. The range is the most advanced of analgesic ranges, and includes gels, creams, sprays and soaks with powerful and therapeutic natural active ingredients, designed to support elite players during warm-up, match support, and recovery. Clohessy’s latest innovation and addition in the Wintergreen range has broad appeal across health and wellness segments, delivering a technical advantage in all sport codes. The new Wintergreen™ Magnesium range is a first to market in SA, providing fast, effective, transdermal magnesium and electrolyte replenishment. Wintergreen is the most advanced analgesic range in the world and uses only natural active ingredients and materials of the highest quality and only pharmaceutical grade. The Magnesium range will be available in Clicks from January 2021, and shop the full range at WP Rugby shop (Cape Town), The Bare Foot Concept store (Cape Town), online at www.takealot.com, www.capecycles.co.za, www.sportsa.co.za, www.football-emporium.com, www.blksport.co.za. Select products are available at Sportsman’s Warehouse and various cycling shops. Win one of five Wintergreen Magnesium hampers valued at R1990 each. 1.     To enter SMS: WAMAG  followed by your name, and email address to 33258. 2.     The competition opens today and closes on Tuesday at 12 noon. 3.     Winners will be notified via email. 4.     SMS costs R1.50. 5.     Terms and conditions apply.