Mark van Deventer Russian Rock bravely overcame a troubled trip to score a massive 100 to 1 upset in the Cape Guineas more than 1600m at Kenilworth Racecourse, providing Dean Kannemeyer with yet another win in this historic Classic and a first Grade 1 for jockey Grant Behr. The flashy grey was sired by former Durban July victor, Pomodoro and bred at Klawervlei Stud. Linebacker was a valiant second, caught in the last jump, after racing wide around the turn before going on strongly and looking all over a winner - except on the post. Rascallion, heavily backed in the market down to 33 to 10, encountered some trouble in the straight before staying on gamely to secure the trifecta slot. Jet Dark completed an exceedingly difficult quartet sequence, whilst badly drawn The Gatekeeper caught the eye with a torrid late rally just out of the places. Russian Rock has now won twice from five starts, on both occasions starting as an unconsidered long shot. He won on debut at 50 to 1 over an inadequate 1250m and provided an even bigger stunner in the Cape Guineas. Trainer Kannemeyer was happy with the exceptional morning workouts the grey was producing – yet this was the first time he was meeting rivals of such a high calibre – hence the dim view the market took of his chances. Journeyman jockey, Grant Behr seldom gets the opportunity to mix it on genuinely live runners in the big races. He is, however, an experienced level-headed professional and his loyal boss, Kannemeyer has always assessed Behr as an underrated, forceful rider. It was a remarkable effort from both the diminutive Russian Rock and Behr to rebreak after getting hampered at a crucial stage, before lunging to a famous short head victory. In the Cape Racing Victress Stakes (G3) over 1800m, apart from having the highest merit rating in the field, Silvano’s Pride looked tactically dangerous as the lone speed. She was duly given a finel judged front riding ride by Richard Fourie, though he modestly commented afterwards that, “she does it all herself.” The Justin Snaith trained daughter of Silvano courageously went all the way to notch her sixth victory from 18 starts and will next have a dip at the Paddock Stakes. Paul Peter’s Gauteng raider, Heart Stwings chased her around the wind-swept track to stay on for second in a career-best performance. Favourite, Missisippi Burning was never a factor, jogging tamely in last place then failing to produce any sort of kick at her first attempt beyond a mile. Jockey Craig Zackey lamented that “she was off the bit soon after the start.” The complexion of the Peninsula Handicap (G3) over 1800m changed completely in the final 200m. Captain Flinders had shaken loose on the lead halfway down the stretch but could not withstand a horde of challengers in deep stretch. Best finisher of all was Nexus, under inspired veteran, Pierre Strydom who rushed past in the centre of the course, marginally ahead of Super Silvano and Love Happens. The winner was also saddled by furnace-hot, Snaith Racing, who have extracted 7 wins from this talented Dynasty gelding. It was a sterling effort carrying 59kg’s from a wide barrier then passing 11 horses in the final furlong to get up for the win. Super Silvano, 2nd to Winter Series hero Katak in July, regained form to get closest to Nexus. 