Internet star Suzelle is hanging up her DIY hammer and getty ready to  have a baby. But becoming a “Momfluencer” in a new series, Tali’s Baby Diary is harder than it looks. Actress and Youtube star Julia Anastasopoulos, best known for her character and channel SuzelleDIY, is currently on set of the follow-up season to her 2017 show, Tali’s Wedding Diary. The production was is being  filmed in Cape Town at the President Hotel in Bantry Bay. “We’ve taken a break from Suzelle,” Anastasopoulos said. “I can’t maintain both during an intensive shooting period. But as soon as we wrap, we can move back into Suzelle’s world.” In the new series, Anastasopoulos’ character Tali has ridden the wave of a successful wedding and is settling into the life of an influencer, scoring a deal with a fitness company to be their brand ambassador. But when she discovers she is pregnant she is forced to rethink her strategy and become a momfluencer. “Although she redeemed herself in so many ways at the end of the first season, she’s still the same Tali,” Anastasopoulos explained. “She’s a character we love to hate. She’s very entitled, she gets what she wants. She says what she wants and says it like it is. “It’s a fun new arch for the character to see how she fares in the very crazy world of becoming a mom – becoming a mom on social media, and also how she deals with it physically. By the end, she will end up learning another lesson.” The series also stars Lara Toselli, Anton Taylor and Glen Biderman-Pam. Celebrities Siv Ngesi and Danny K make a guest appearance in the show. The show is presented in a mockumentary style with a fictional film crew following and interacting with the characters. It takes inspiration from Anastasopoulos’ own experience when she gave birth to her daughter in 2018. “I can definitely relate to the world and the comedy of it. Even though we’re in it, it’s still ridiculous and that’s what we’re playing into this season. There’s definitely elements of myself, but it’s all heightened.” Anastasopoulos added: “I hope people see it as a reflection of ourselves and it looks at privilege in a certain light. As comedians and storytellers, we should be doing that. The character is more than just a stereotype. I hope I am portraying her with nuance and depth and that really helps it along.” Series creator Ari Kruger said working under Covid-19 regulations, while also concerned for a resurgence of the virus in the country, had been challenging. “If we can just get to the end of next week, it will be a miracle,” he said. “We’re constantly hearing of shoots shutting down and actors unable to travel. The first week was quite scary, but now we’re so deep in production all we’re trying to do is make it happen.” Kruger said lessons had been learnt from the filming of the first series. We were shooting a lot more haphazardly in the first season,” he said. “But in Season Two, we’re being a lot more controlled with our camerawork and trying to be more traditional in the coverage we’re getting. We’ve just been a lot safer.” Upon its release, Tali’s Wedding Diary received critical acclaim and won five categories at the South African Film and Television Awards (Saftas). The show was the first original production from streaming service Showmax to win a Safta. Tali’s Baby Diary is scheduled to be released in March 2021.