AFTER two years  of being at loggerheads with the George Municipality, embattled manager, Trevor Botha has resigned. Botha would not comment on the reasons this week, but the George mayor confirmed the resignation in a letter he wrote to residents and ratepayers. However, in an internal memo Botha sent to his team and colleagues which Weekend Argus has, he said following "mediation and negotiations" with mayor Leon van Wyk, a non-disclosure agreement to terminate the contract  was reached in an "amicable and almost fair" manner. "You would be aware of the relentless challenges that myself and staff in the office had to endure for a period of time since 2017. The evidence points to a relentless onslaught," he wrote. Botha said since his appointment in 2010, his office redeemed external loans of R600 million and saved the municipality millions of rand when it brought down the cost of the regional landfill facility from R100 million to R21 million. However, the "political instability and turmoil that characterised the last few years since 2017 was unfortunate and we can only hope that sanity and goodwill will return to ensure effective service delivery," Botha said. In July 2018,  Botha reported an investment "fraud" allegedly involving some members of the DA-led council and Old Mutual. He also reported the matter to the Hawks. Shortly after that, two raids on his office were launched by the Hawks in April 2018 and July 2019. Attempts were also made in February to place  him on precautionary suspension for 90 days after a council decision. The matter was challenged in the Western Cape High Court which ruled that the decision was " unlawful" and ordered that it should be set aside. The municipality was ordered to pay the costs of the application as punitive costs. According to a source who was reluctant to be named, Botha's health had, as a result of the "attacks", deteriorated and he asked to terminate the contract which was only due to end in  February 2022. In the letter to the residents, Van Wyk disclosed private details of the settlement reached. Council Speaker Gerrit Pretorius said the public was entitled to the information. Van Wyk's rise to a seat in the council was not without controversy. He wrote to the then DA Federal Council chairperson James Selfe requesting him to intervene in his appointment to an office where he would run the administration of the municipality. In the letter to Selfe, Van Wyk wrote that former mayor Melvin Naik was of the view that Botha was taking an "unduly conservative line" and Selfe would need "political will". Selfe confirmed at the time that he was approached by Van Wyk and took the matter up with Naik as it appeared that an expectation had been raised with Van Wyk but was told that the municipality would not be appointing Van Wyk to the position to head the Investment Unit. "I informed Councillor Van Wyk. The matter ended there," he said at the time. Van Wyk was appointed mayor in May 2020 after Naik was fired.