SOUTH Africa was represented at the annual UN Ocean and Climate Change Dialogue earlier this week, where youth were given a chance to express their work done to protect the country’s oceans. Youth for Marine Protected Areas (Y4MPAs), an ocean conservation group, member Ruth Mthembu, from Durban, represented her country by delivering a speech outlining incredible work that the movement has achieved, since 2018. “It is an honour to be chosen to represent the Youth for MPAs movement, as there is a keen interest in what the youth in SA has done in its efforts for increased marine protection,” she said. The 28-year-old said that the biggest drive is for increased marine protection in the country. “MPAs help mitigate climate change. Protecting ocean habitats like seagrass can sequester carbon dioxide from the atmosphere at rates up to four times higher than terrestrial forests,” she added. In her speech at the dialogue she said: “Dear leaders, be leaders. Stop stalling. You are more than capable of making effective decisions. Lack of ocean protection is a long-term pandemic with far reaching consequences.” Spokesperson of Y4MPA Merrisa Naidoo said: “It gives SA a spot on the global stage to highlight the work it has done in its effort to secure increased marine protection. It is also an opportunity to remind and encourage the SA government to keep going in its efforts.” She said that as a voice of the youth, she believed that the country has to rethink the relationship between energy, development and political injustices. “Leaders must start thinking and acting on developing climate-resilient strategies that effectively reduce poverty, raise productivity and cut emissions especially on the African continent,” she added. At the online dialogue, American environmental scientist Dr Jane Lubchenco said that a new Ocean Panel was launched during the week. The panel consists of 14 serving global leaders, presidents and prime ministers of 10 countries, including Namibia and Kenya. “These heads of state came together to develop a set of actions that would enable a sustainable ocean economy. They began seeking scientists and established a group,” she said. Lubchenco added that the panel requested that experts produce 20 blue papers about the ocean on a wide range of topics for discussion. This included possible action for climate change. “Policy and legal experts were set to produce pre-reviewed reports on topics ranging from mitigation, food security, technology, biodiversity and more,” she said.