Durban - A water shutdown has been planned for the entire Western Aqueduct system next week. According to eThekwini Municipality spokesperson, Msawakhe Mayisela, the shutdown will take place next Tuesday and Wednesday, February 18 and 19. "The main aim of the shutdown is to do a tie in of the new 800mm diameter steel main from Cato Ridge reservoir into the existing 1600mm diameter Aqueduct line.To undertake this tie in, the City is compelled to completely drain the aqueduct since the operation involves mainly steel welding. The system will therefore be completely isolated at point M custody transfer station," he said. He said to prepare the site for welding and construction teams on site, the process of draining the aqueduct will commence at 6am on Tuesday. "This will allow the site teams to commence work at 6pm on the same day. The duration of the entire shut down will be from 6am on Tuesday until 6pm on Wednesday.  We will endeavor to fill all the reservoirs affected to top water level, however the behavior of respective reservoirs is different and dependent on downstream demands," Mayisela said. Water tankers will be dispatched to service areas experiencing water outages during this shutdown period. These are the affected areas: Georgedale Reservoir zone: Georgedale and Mpumalanga Hammersdale Low Level Reservoir: Hammersdale CBD Hammersdale High Level Reservoir: Cliffdale and Mlaba village Shongweni Reservoir Zone: Shongweni and Ntshongweni Zwelibomvu Reservoir Zone: Zwelibomvu, Salem, Ofudu, Inwabi and Ngonyameni Cato Ridge Reservoir Zone: Cato Ridge, Ntukuso, Kwaximba, Assimang Abbattoir Resrvoir Zone: KwaXimba and Emadeleni Alverstone Nek Res Zone: Alverstone, Alverstone North, Summerveld Bothas Hill Reservoir Zone: Bothas Hill, Kwanyuswa, Mnamatha, Mabedlane and  Magugwana Emoyeni Reservoir: Hillcrest, Hillcrest Hospital, Winston Park and Gillitts Knelsby Reservoir Zone: Hillcrest CBD and Hillcrest Westriding Reservoir Zone: Westriding, Embo, Mkholombe, Kwanqetho, Mshazi, Waterfall, Crestholme and Pinkney park Abelia Reservoir Zone: Kloof, Wybank andNew Germany Jerome Drive Reservoir Zone: Pinetown CBD and New Germany Emberton 1 Reservoir Zone: Kloof and Gillitts Emberton 2 Reservoir Zone: Emberton and Kloof Hygarth Reservoir Zone:  Westmead industrial Clubhouse Road Reservoir: Westmead Industrial and Booster to Tshelimnyama Tshelimnyama 3 Reservoir Zone: Tshelimnyama, Dassenhoek, Mpola and Pitoli Kwandengezi Reservoir Zone: Kwandengezi, Kwalinda and Coffee Farm KwaDabeka 1 Reservoir Zone: Kwadabeka Wybank Reservoir Zone: New Germany and Wybank Ntuzuma 5 Reservoir Zone: Ntuzuma, Umzinyathi, Inanda and Etafuleni All queries regarding water supply must be referred to the city's Call Centre via: 080 131 3013 or 073 148 3477. The Mercury