Film-makers are being given a unique opportunity to showcase their talent and stand a chance to win some serious seed money that could go a long way towards funding their next big project. This year marks the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation. In order to promote China-Africa cultural exchanges and enhance people-to-people understanding, BEIJING REVIEW will host the Second ChinAfrica Short Video Competition from August to December 2020. African people and overseas Chinese who have studied or are currently studying in China, have worked or are working in Chinese companies, or are interested in Chinese culture are invited to submit their videos related to various aspects of China-Africa exchanges. The South Africa Zone competition is hosted by CHINAFRICA magazine, a publication of BEIJING REVIEW. Theme The theme for this year’s competition is Working Hand in Hand Toward a Shared Future; My Unforgettable Experience in 2020. The theme covers sub-themes of “Joining Hands to Fight Covid-19,” “Model Figures,” “Witnessing the History” and “My Experiences.” Participants can tell stories related to anti-Covid-19 efforts, China-Africa friendship, economic cooperation, people-to-people and cultural exchanges, poverty alleviation and environmental protection. Video entries can be a team effort or a solo project. How the competition works Detailed information about the competition can be found on the official website, Facebook, YouTube and Twitter accounts of ChinAfrica magazine, Independent Media Group and People’s Daily Online South Africa. Participants can upload their video entries, together with personal details including full name, occupation, nationality, telephone number and postal address (in a text file) to a cloud storage platform, such as Onedrive or Baidu Cloud, and email the download link and password to: 2ndvsub@gmail.com The final results will be decided based on online votes and jury votes. Requirements for video entries • Videos should be in line with the theme and should be no more than five minutes; • Videos should be original and must not contain materials related to pornography, violence, religion or racism. No advertisement is allowed; • The resolution of the videos should be no less than 1280×720; • Videos should be presented/narrated in English only. Sound bites in other languages should be accompanied by English subtitles; • Video format should be .avi, .mov, .mp4 and .mpeg, and file size should not exceed 500M each; • Videos will be divided into two groups for judging and prizes: Micro Video Group (0.5-1 minute) and Short Video Group (1.1-5 minutes). Prizes: (For China Zone, South Africa Zone and Senegal Zone combined) • 1 Grand Prize of R20 000; • 1 First Prize for Each Group of R6 000; • 3 Second Prizes for Each Group of R4 000 each; • 5 Third Prizes for Each Group of R2 000 each; • 15 Organization Awards of R4 000 each (awarded to organizations who enter, such as schools). • All winners will get 3 issues of ChinAfrica magazine Important dates The closing date for video entries is November 6, 2020. Online voting closes on November 20, 2020. The awards ceremony will take place on December 2, 2020. Host CHINAFRICA Magazine Co-hosts People’s Daily Online SA Independent Media Group The Chinese Culture and International Education Exchange Center and its Confucius Classroom Organisers Global Max Media Group Galaxy Universal Network of South Africa Co-organisers South Africa China Economic and Trade Association Confucius Institute for Chinese Medicine at the University of Western Cape Confucius Institute at the University of Johannesburg Confucius Institute at Stellenbosch University Confucius Institute at the University of Cape Town Confucius Institute at Rhodes University Confucius Institute at the Durban University of Technology Confucius Classroom at the Cape Academy of Mathematics, Science and Technology Confucius Classroom at Westerford High School (In no particular order) Supported by The Chinese Embassy in South Africa The Government Communication and Information System of South Africa (GCIS)