Cape Town - A well-known Cape Town jazz musician faces a sexual grooming charge after being charged with rape and sexual assault. The musician made his second appearance in the Blue Downs Magistrate’s Court on Friday morning. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) confirmed the added charge. NPA spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said: “The case of a Cape Town jazz musician was on the roll at the Blue Downs Magistrate’s Court this morning. He is charged with rape, sexual assault and sexual grooming.” The musician, who still cannot be named as ordered by the magistrate, first appeared in July after it emerged a victim aged 21 opened the case against him. He was released on a R1 000 bail, with conditions. It is believed the 21-year-old was sexually assaulted from the age of 14 until last year. It is understood there are more victims who are yet to come forward. The accused has shared the stage with numerous renowned artists and was the interim national deputy chairperson of the Trade Union for Musicians of South Africa. Ntabazalila said the case was postponed until February 26 for further investigations. Cape Town attorney Joy van der Heyde said that with sexual grooming, the State would have to prove the victim was acclimatised to sexual thinking. “There would be things like pornography used or gifts for rewards for a particular behaviour and manipulation to think a certain way," she said. “The predator will groom the victim into a position where the child thinks it’s normal and only when they are older do they release that it was wrong,” she said. She added, in cases like this, the victim will often undergo secondary victimisation or victim-blaming when he or she comes forward. “People sometimes come against them and that makes them think that coming forward was wrong. The defence will often use tactics like they gave consent and paint a picture of that is what they wanted,” said Van der Heyde. She said this affects the victim’s mental health and causes things like post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression and personality disorders. She added that victims in matters like these should seek therapy despite the stigma. The accused still cannot be named as ordered by the magistrate. The victim’s father said he would be holding all comments until the case has concluded as advised by authorities. *Additional reporting by IOL 